Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number 530. In this episode,
Scott talks with Jen Looper
about building native apps using
native script. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hanselminutes today. We're
talking with Jen Luper about
native script. I understand that
you were just at a
conference. Was it an angular
conference about Yes, we were
just at M NG comp
in Utah in salt Lake
city. And that's the biggest
and one of the most
fun conferences I've ever been
to actually it's the biggest
angular conference that it's actually
a conference put on by
the community, but the Google
angular team is heavily involved
in it. So they do
this every year and this
is their third year. So
it's kind of become the
angular con Definitely the angular
confit in the U S
and I'll be an angular
connect in London in September
as well. All right, very
cool. Now, one thing just
in the interest of a
full disclosure, a native script
is an open source project,
and you can see it
on get hub. You can
go to native script.org. It
is financially supported though by
Tellerik Tellerik coincidentally has sponsored
Hansel minutes for a number
of years. I didn't know
any of this though, when
I invited you on the
show, but I just want
to make sure that people
don't understand that you're on
the show because native script
is cool, unrelated to any
sponsorship relationship we have with
Tellerik, which is a great
company, but unrelated. Awesome. Cool.
So, so native script is
you can go to native
script.org. It's an open source
platform, and it says for
building native mobile applications, is
it its own language? Am
I writing Java script? Am
I writing some other special
links? Yeah, I think that
the word native script, sometimes
I mislead some people because
I was actually just at
a meetup last night and
they said, you know, so
I have to learn a
new language. Oh no, no,
actually it's, it's just using
JavaScript to write native apps.
So the word native script
is almost like a mashup
of JavaScript plus native. So
even writing in JavaScript or
TypeScript, if you so prefer
on the front end, you
might use XML. And then
you can, your app CSS
and native script is a
runtime that allows you to
use these languages to build
a truly native app. So
it's really a new technology
and it's a pretty exciting
place to be right now.
So when I hear about
native apps on native apps
with JavaScript, I think, Oh,
wait a second, you're putting
a, a fake native frame
around something. And then you're
just putting it in a
web view and lights like
Cordova, right. Which when we've
all been there, we've all
seen those kinds of web
websites in a frame they're
kind of like fake apps.
You had many sites. Exactly.
Right? So this is like
the next generation after Cordova,
I would say. And I
don't want to disrespect, you
know, the hybrid mobile app
ecosystem, because I mean, we
certainly still support the creation
of hybrid mobile apps and,
but they're running in a
web view. So you're going
to have a little bit
of a lag because this
rapper does, does basically wrap
web technologies, but it's a
great way to build, you
know, your cross platform, iOS,
Android, even windows, phone apps,
quickly and easily with one
code base also using, you
know, CSS and JavaScript, but
it's running within a web
view. So it does have
a little bit of lag
sometimes. And sometimes the look
and feel and the kind
of organic nature of the
app. Doesn't just, doesn't quite
feel native unless you really
know what you're doing. And
you're really using a lot
of little plugins to create
native interactions and that sort
of thing. There are some
great hybrid mobile apps out
there like untapped as one.
And it's, it's perfectly adequate
for what you need, but
when at a certain point
in every developer's life, there
comes a time when you
might want to have something
with a little bit more
of a native experience and
these new technologies like native
script or offering this ecosystem.
And it's just being built
up right now and it's
brand new and it's really
a fun place to be
right now. Yeah. I think
you, you're far more polite
than maybe I was, I
don't mean to disrespect hybrid
apps. I think the point
is that as a user,
I don't want to smell
an app that looks like
it's been thrown together. You
know? So I think hybrid
apps have gotten a bad
rap in the last several
years when someone takes a
mediocre mobile site, puts it
in a frame and says,
Hey look, website. But I
can, I agree that like,
whether it be Xamarin or
Cordova tools, there are absolutely
apps where you would tell
me that that's not really
a native app. And I'd
be like, wow, like that's
insane. And that's the best
compliment, right? That you can
give an app. Yeah, my
boss Burke, actually, if you
look on YouTube, he did
the hybrid mobile challenge, sort
of like the Pepsi challenge,
you know, can you tell
which of course actually both
were hybrid mobiles. It was
kind of really funny at
the end. It's quite an
amusing if you look it
up on YouTube, but yeah.
So our, our goal is
to make truly native apps
and make them as performing
as native because they aren't
native. Okay. So does that
mean that they, I use
Java script and I use
what on the UI? You
said, you said, Yeah. Yeah.
It's interesting. And a lot
of the people coming from
the Xamarin world are using
the XAML. They might have
a little more familiarity already,
excuse me, with this technique,
the JavaScript developers might look
a little askance at this
kind of putting together of
the UI, but once you
get into it, it starts
to make sense. And it
feels almost like HTML. So
it's not so bad. You
know, like if I can
do it, anybody can do
it. It's like the whole
point of my career. If
I can do it, you
can do it. So you
would use XML on the
front end to write your
UI. And then you would
have code behind files are
written in JavaScript or TypeScript.
And then you can style
with a subset of CSS.
And we have all of
this documented. If you go
to native script.org, look at
the docs. So how does
the, how does the workflow
work? I write my XML,
my UI in a, in
a, in a non specific
way. I'm not saying here's
an Android button, here's an
iPhone button. I just say,
here's a button and I
want it to look like
this. Exactly. So you can
take a look again at
the docs, but what we're
doing is we're offering native
script modules so that you
don't have to write a
native Android button and a
native iOS button in JavaScript.
You just use the tag
button and with, you know,
text equals push me and
tap is go. And then
this creates an abstraction. So
the beauty of native script
is that abstraction that it
makes to allow you to
lever it, to, to bridge
over to then the native
code behind the scenes. So
there's a lot of work
being done behind the scenes
that is abstracted away from
you. That's really helpful. But
the beauty, the other beauty
of native script, other than
those abstractions is that we
do allow you to access
all of the native API
APIs. And this is what
sets us apart to some
of the other people in
this, in this space, you
can always take a look
at the way native things
are done natively and write
JavaScript to leverage those, those
native, the native extras that
you might need to, to
leverage. So if there's some
thing that an Android phone
can do a certain flavor
that another, an iPhone couldn't,
you're writing effectively native code
in JavaScript, you can call
that API. If the API
is invisible to you, you
can call it like any
old API. Exactly. And we're
leveraging the JavaScript's virtual machines
to allow that translation to
be made. And that's kind
of the exciting bit. It
just takes a little bit,
you need to understand a
little of the way, you
know, the native ecosystems work,
and then you can write
your Java script on top
of it. And it works
really nicely. There's a couple
of articles on native script.org
on our blogs that explain,
you know, how this is
done. So it's really kind
of a good read. And
I understand that there's no
like bridging involved. It's not
that you're marshaling things. It's
just, you're, it's, you're somehow
writing native code and calling
native code using the JavaScript
VM or an, Oh, you
have a special runtime of
your own. Yeah. It's the
runtime of our own actually.
So there's a little bit
of marshaling going on, but
yeah, I think that the
have this very specific runtime
that we use on some
other solutions, you know, have
more of a bridging or
a wrapper solutions. Everybody's trying
to do the same thing,
but yeah. Different ways. Right,
right. I've seen people say,
well, we're using a web
view and then we're using
JavaScript within it. And then
we're going to make native
things available via the Dom
and then kind of like
a bottom up. And then
other people say, no, we're
going to start with JavaScript
virtual machines, like V8 or
JavaScript core, and then modify
those and then make the
native APIs available to the
VM directly. And that's what
we're doing. That's that letter?
That letter piece. Absolutely. Alright.
So, so then that means
you're getting basically the same
kind of support that you
would get writing, like a
desktop app in Chrome, like
an electron app, like you're
getting real access to the
native stuff. Just like, you're
like, like a native app
in what's an example, like
Slack is a great example
of electronic app that doesn't
really feel like a web
app. Exactly. Exactly. Okay. So
this works on iOS and
Android. Yes. And we're going
to be supporting windows universal
and some point in the
near future. I think there's
a proof of concept out
there actually. And all of
this stuff is open source,
so you can go tinker
with it. Oh. So then
I will be able to
write a UWP app and
they would run anywhere that
runs. That's pretty cool. Yeah.
That's something to think about.
We also have an amazing
community and they're writing these
really cool scaffolding projects. We
have a wonderful tolerant developer
expert called Nathan Walker, who is
very active in the angular
community. And he's written something
called, I think it's called
angular seed scaffolding. And it
allows you to use that
your one code base to
write for the web, for
desktop, for, and then for
iOS and Android. He also
has another scaffolding project called
I think it's angular native
script magic. And that does
the same sort of thing.
So people are sort of
helping you get, get started
quickly by publishing these cool
open source projects on GitHub.
I just spun up a
web app today and I'm
like, Oh my gosh, I
just created, you know, whether
native and it's sharing code
and is awesome. So this
came out in March of
2015, so you're a little
bit over a year into
it. And this was kind
of a crowded space though.
Cause you had phone gap
early on, you had Cordova,
then there was titanium and
Xamarin. Now there's, there's this
react native. Where does native
script fit into that ecosystem?
Yeah, so this isn't like
I said, the second generation
after Cordova. So a lot
of people are trying to
solve this, you know, titanium
certainly been around doing the
same sort of thing. I
believe they use a bridging
as does react native. Of
course the big difference between
a native script and react
native is of course react
native is using react. Whereas
we have kind of hitched
our wagon to the angular
ecosystem. So there are two
ways to build native script
apps. You can build, you
know, straight JavaScript XNL CSS
or you can use the
angular integration that we have
for angular two very specifically.
So that's a, that's a
great way to go ahead
and, and start building up
up your app. But yeah,
and then the differentiator between
us and for example, you
know, Xamarin would be, of
course they're using C-sharp, you
know, so everyone's picking kind
of the, the language and
the ecosystem that they prefer.
And now they're able to
leverage these new technologies to
build nice native mobile apps.
It's really fun. Hmm. So
when, when I'm writing an
app that I want to
run everywhere, but I simultaneously
want it to feel native.
Might I find myself saying
like writing code? That's like,
well, if I'm on Android,
call this native Android API
and if I'm on iOS
call this native iOS API.
So which, how many times
am I calling native APIs
versus calling kind of universal
native script runtimes? Yeah. I
have two apps in production.
Actually. One is a weather
app and I'm on an
Android and iOS. And the
other is a game both
in, in native script and
for the game, I did
not use any specific native
code at all because the
module took care of me,
but that kind of interface
is more, you know, you're
picking images and you're doing
a fun, it was actually
integrated to clarify API. So
the beauty of that app
is not so much the
nativeness of it, but the
gamification of it, the other
app is the weather app.
And I didn't need to
dig into the location modules
and write a little bit
of native code because iOS
and Android get location vary
quite differently. So you need
to be able to know
where you are so that
you can get your local
weather. So for that sort
of use case, I did
need to get a little
bit more native than I
actually was wanting to, but
Oh, well, it's a good
exercise, you know? So forgive
my ignorance. But is that
a runtime thing where it's
like, if I'm on iOS
do this, or is it
more of a if Def
where it's like, you know,
before compilation and then you
make two different versions of
the app? Oh yeah. I,
it was just a switch
because we have a module
for the platform. So you
can determine which platform you're
on. If you're on iOS,
then get my location in
this way. And if I'm
on Android use the other
way. So, But do you
know if it happens at
runtime or if it happens
at build time, like when
you build this, you have
to make a separate APK
for Android and an iOS
package. Right. So I'm just
curious if, if there's a,
if that's happening during compilation
or if that's happening while
it runs, I believe it's
during run time. Okay. I
probably would want to verify
that, but So that's a
great, that's a great point
though, that you can verify
that because this is open
source, right. I could go
in and look at this
stuff And just verify what
I'm saying here. Yeah. That's
really important. I think that's
the fun part about this
is that, you know, certainly
we don't want to say
that the source code is
the docs cause there's lots
of great docs and anytime
we do have a question
like that, you can kind
of just go poke around.
Absolutely. We're working very hard
on our docs and our
getting started guides, my colleague,
TJ and I are, you
know, really hitting the, getting
started experience so that people
can just dig in and
then always have access to,
you know, take a look
at, even the module code
is open source. You can
see exactly what's going on
behind the scenes. You create
your own modules and we're
really encouraging people to create
plugins as well. So that's
a fun experience for them.
The Slack community is terrific.
The other dogs are great.
If you go to docs
dot native script.org under getting
started, it says get started
with JavaScript course. But then
it says, get started with
TypeScript and angular. Now I
want to talk about angular
a little bit because you,
you, like you said, you've
hitched your wagon to it,
but it sounds like you
can also just sit down
and work, use TypeScript and
it works great. Yeah. TypeScript
is actually a first class
citizen in, in a native
script. So the, the engineering
team is all in Bulgaria
and they are big fans
of TypeScript. So modules are
all in TypeScript and they
just went on that from
day one. So, and if
you're going to be writing
currently an angular two app,
you need to be writing
your native script using TypeScript,
I think in the near
or far future that might
change. And you can go
ahead and write in JavaScript.
But honestly, once you get
into the TypeScript world, it's
okay. You know, we can
deal. We're big. We can
manage it. It seems like
the, when the, when the
Google folks in the angular
folks were like, okay, TypeScript
is not bad. It's not
like a tainted or it's
not some evil Microsoft thing.
That's going to ruin the
world. They're like, Oh, okay,
this is cool. It give
us, it gives us what
we want with ESX and
beyond now, without any, any,
any stress you get all
the IntelliSense and stuff. Oh
yeah. The visual studio code
is what I use right
now. I switched out from
sublime. I'm loving it. It's,
it's an amazing IDE and
we have great native scripts
and integrations for visual studio
code with all the IntelliSense
I was doing. I was
at a meetup last night
and made a mistake. I,
I did a fancy quote
instead of a plain quote
and tell us, picked it
up just immediately, like immediately
fix it. And then since
live sync was working on
Jenny motion, everything just was
beautiful. I was like, it
was, I haven't sent experience.
So, so visual studio code
D can you do it
in visual studio, proper and
the bigger visual studio, or
do you really prefer the
visual studio code? I'm on
a Mac. So I do
use visual studio code. And
it's funny because at NG
comp, everybody was except, well,
TJ was using sublime and
he was really in the
minority. It's kind of funny.
Hey, this is Scott. I
wanted to tell you about
LLB. Elgen pro the leading
entity modeling designer for your
favorite.net. Oh, our mapping framework
version five was just released
with some exciting new features
like derive models, support for
DTL class models, document databases,
real time validation, one-click relational
model synchronization, and much, much
more. You can read all
about it. It LL B
L G E n.com. That's
LLB elgin.com. It's a fantastic
product it's been around for
years and you should check
it out. L L B
L Jen. It's funny how
sublime is kind of slowed
down since visual studio code
came along. I think people
are enjoying the IntelliSense support.
Definitely those squiggly red lines.
You just love them after
a while. It's a great,
great thing to have. And
then all the plugins that
people are creating, John Papa
has created these great angular,
two snippet integrations. It's, it's
just really, really helpful for
your workflow. The only thing
about visual studio code that
I'm still not a hundred
percent ecstatic about is the
lack of tabs. I'm so
used to that in sublime.
And we have arguments that
go on and on, you
know, man, we just need
tabs, man. This is so
hard. Yeah. And that's the
kind of thing. Put the
pressure on that team and
see if they'll, they'll do
it because they've also got
their insiders built. You can
have the daily builds visual
studio code. I started running
those as well. So yeah.
Check, check those out. So
I, and they run side
by side. So you can
have your main stable visual
studio code and then your
insider's build. So you get
a preview of what's coming
in the month. Oh, that's
fantastic. Yeah. There is a
ticket open and we're arguing
with the, with the code
team, you know, tabs Tom's
please, please. They're like Nat
Script extension for visual studio
code as well as you
said, like things like snippets
and IntelliSense, but you get
like real debugging, like we'll
be in vs. Code on
a Mac and it'll say
launch on iOS emulator or
attach on Android device, you
really can go and do
full debugging and step through.
Yeah. Break points. It's a
on a Mac. Yeah. And
there's so I just wanna
spun up a site called
native script snacks.com, other short
little video tutorials and code
snippets. And one of the
first ones we have by
Burke Holland, my manager is
how to leverage visual studio
code for debugging. And it's,
it's great. It's a great
little intro intro guide on
how to really leverage visual
studio code. And I think
I'm going to start making,
I'm going to open up
that windows machine and get
visual studio working and see
how far we can get
with this sort of thing
too. And this is so
like we mentioned, the beginning
is supported by Tellerik, but
how does Tellerik make money?
Like I know that when
people put together open source
projects and they get a
sponsor, sometimes they, the sponsor
sells support contracts or sells
additional widgets or, you know,
how does that? Yeah. And
this is a question we
get a lot because the
branding of native scripts seems
almost isolated from Tellerik and
of course Tellerik is, was
acquired by progress. So we're,
you know, progress plus tolerate
plus native script. But the
native script team is, you
know, deeply embedded within Tellerik
and Bulgaria. And the idea
behind monetizing, it is a
little bit like what we
did with Kendo. We have
the basic open source. You
know, the whole project is
basically open source, but if
you want any kind of
fancy UI, we have native
script UI, which is a
separate product that you can
use on top of native
script charting, let's see there's
menus charts, charts of all
different flavors, calendar, and very
fancy lists. So you may
or may not need that,
but when you do, you
may not want to build
it yourself. In which case
we can help you with
that. And then the monetization
strategy is that native script
is tightly integrated with tolerant
platform, which is all the
tooling that you're going to
need around your mobile app
delivery. So analytics, no SQL
database push notifications, all of
those sort of helpful tooling,
even the little tools that
help me make your idea,
size your icon, make your
screen casts, share it, share
your code, all of these
like helpful, helpful tooling around
delivering mobile apps. So it's
like, I look at the,
the Cordova as an example,
like it's a patchy Cordova,
it's its own thing. You
don't need visual studio to
do any of those things,
but visual studio has a
Cordova thing. So you could
buy visual studio and then
use, you know, Cordova. So
you can do native script
yourself in notepad and at
the command line, right. Or
you can start getting involved
in the community and using
different modules that people have
created in one of those
that you could potentially purchase
would be Tellerik UI on
top of that. Absolutely. Yes.
And speaking of plugins, we
also have our plugin ecosystem
for Cordova, plugins.telerik.com. So that's,
we do make our own
plugins and we support those
ourselves, especially for the code
Cordova system, but also for
native script. Right. So we
go to plug, Oh yes.
We've got a terrific that's
one of my favorite things
about our card Cordova support
is the plugins. Yeah. So,
you know, if you need
that location plug and you
just slam it in and
your, and your golden Sierra
plugins.telerik.com is one of my
favorite websites. It's just so
helpful. All right. That's cool.
Yeah. Huh. So the, the,
the angular stuff though, when
did you, when did native
script go from just being
a, a, you know, kind
of a core concepts and
the core runtime to saying,
you know, we think that
the way to do it
is with the angular framework
and their, their data binding
in their model, if you
control our style of thinking.
Right. So I think as
soon as angular two was
announced that, and it was
made, known how they were
going to build angular two,
which was decoupled from the
Dom. All of a sudden,
a lot of people realized,
Oh my gosh, that opens
up just a universe because
in native script, do you
know, there is no Dom,
this is a native UI
that we're building. So we
need some other strategy. So
we just started having meetings
with these guys every week,
actually the core team and
Bulgaria, a wonderful engineers in
Bulgaria, having, having these meetings
every week with the Google
team and just working with
them from day one, to
get an integration going, it's
been a very, very close
relationship, especially with their love
for TypeScript. Our love for
TypeScript. It's sort of an,
I hate this word, but
it's synergy. So it just
worked out beautifully. Does this
mean that if I, if
someone's listening and they're an
angular web developer and they
really like angular and they're
using it at work and
they know JavaScript, they, they
may be mobile developers and
not realize it that there's
an opportunity there. Yes. I
mean, if they're looking, if
they're angular one developers right
now, and they're looking to
jump onto the angular two
bandwagon, or they're looking to
use the migrate tools to
migrate up to angular to,
once you migrate up to
angular two, really the universe
is just going to open
there's angular, universal there's of
course, native script. There's all
sorts of awesome stuff. Angular
material really exciting world is
opening up, I think, and
I'm not even an angular
fan person, but I was
so impressed by what I
was seeing. I think that
that idea that I want
to leverage existing skills and
not just redo, like, not
this relearn, something like, I
know everyone says you're supposed
to learn a new language
every year and all that
kind of stuff, but it
gets a little exhausting. And
if I'm already an angular
person I'm already into TypeScript
and it's like, Oh, wait
a second. There's a world
I can jump in. And
I can be immediately productive
making a mobile app. That's
very comforting. Especially when I
think about people who have
like corporate jobs or enterprise
jobs. And it's like, you
know, I really want to
make a mobile app on
the side, but learning iOS
is exhausting. Oh yeah. Yeah.
It's, it's, it's just so
daunting to think that you're
going to have to, you
know, deal with X code,
right. Something that Swift or
objective C, although actually I
kind of liked Swift and
then do it all again
in Java released twice. It's
just like, it just makes
your hair turn gray. It's
just not a pretty picture
for a small shop, especially.
But yeah, I think if
you can get your web
team on board to jump
onto angular two, and then
you can really start to
leverage this code sharing strategy
about 75%, maybe a little
bit less of the code,
you know, that you've already
got, you can use on
the service tier and even
on the router to spin
up your native app. If
you layer on native script,
it's, it's a, it's a
beautiful picture. Do I need
a Mac? This is probably,
I know the answer to
this. I think, do I
need a Mac to make
Mac apps? Or is there
some cloud compiler? Like how
does, is there X code
underneath it? Like how what's
the idea I say, build
in visual studio code and
then a miracle happens in
a Mac app iOS app
pops up. Yeah. So this
is the one of the
money propositions of course, of
Tellart platform because we do
do cloud builds. And then,
you know, you get, you'll
have your, your, your build
happening in the cloud, on
your PC. And then you're
not gonna have to worry
about buying a Mac, but
for the open source project
using the native script, CLI,
you're going to need, sadly,
you're going to need a
Mac for that because it
does rely on the X
code and the X code
emulator. So I don't know
how Mac and cloud works,
but have you ever taken
a look at that? I
have not. I know that
there are people who suggest
the best way to do
this is to buy like
a Mac mini and stick
it in the closet and
treat it and treat it
as your own kind of
personal internal cloud. And I
know that there are, there
are ways to do that.
So it sounds like teller
platform is one way to
think about that as well.
So you are utilizing the
existing Android tools and you're,
you're, you're sitting on top
of their, their tool chain.
So you build Android, you
start, you do it all
in native script. You probably
never even have to see
the Android tools. And then
an Android app pops out.
You don't have to, you
don't have to open the
X code, an iOS app
pops out, Right? Yeah. You're
just basically leveraging the simulator.
The emulators, I should say,
I always use Jenny motion.
I never can actually manage
to get my Android emulator
to behave. It's all on
my Mac. So Jenny motion
has a terrific little tool.
Just open it up and
then you can live sync
it. So every time you
make a change in the
code, it just refreshes and
rebuild. Right. And then you
can see what's going on
is great. Yeah. I use
the visual studio, Android emulator
on my, on a windows
machine cause it uses hyper
V. So the next great
thing will be some way
to have iOS running in
an emulator on, on windows.
And then I'll be all
set. This is ever going
to happen, you know, will,
will Apple ever, ever allow
this? I don't know. You
know, the thing is that
it's possible, right? Like anything's
possible, isn't it? I'm sure.
You know, it's, it's, it's
possible, but they, it takes
organizational willpower. Yeah. I mean,
we, I used to evangelize
a little bit informally for
our own Corona SDK and
it was a great thing
that everybody could just, you
know, have the, have the
software installed and then you
have the most beautiful emulator
is just like rolling out
your app. And it was
a great thing to see.
And there wasn't any issue
because we weren't using native
emulators, but then of course
you hit the device and
then you see some issues
because the ambulance didn't really
show you what was going
on. So if you're building
a native app, I guess
you do need those native
emulators. So you're just going
to have to deal. Nope.
That seems totally reasonable. But
I think the point is
that in your regular work,
in your, you know, edit
and continue, edit and refresh
kind of, you know, workflow,
you're not thinking about it.
Like the friction level I'm
hearing you say for something
like native script is low.
I feel like I'm writing
TypeScript and JavaScript 90% of
the time when I want
to call it native API,
I can, but I don't
necessarily feel constrained by the
frame. Exactly. Yeah. It's, I
would say it's a very
flexible framework and you can,
you know, write as much
or as little of the
native code as you want.
You can branch, especially your
UI, as much as you
want. You could inline styles
like on the ant on
Android style, my text box
this way. And on iOS,
that way you can do
that in line. You can
do it by it by
separate style sheets, or you
can even make your own
little XML layouts. Some people
have their own XML layouts
for iPads versus iPhones versus
a smaller tablets, bigger tablets.
They get pretty, it can
get complicated or as simple
as you want. And I
really appreciate that kind of
flexibility. It's really, it's really
nice So that I just
realized that we're using angular,
we're using JavaScript, but we're
not using HTML, our templates
that we're going to bind
our data to. Aren't going
to say, you know, div
and class and things like
that. It's going to say
grid layout and list. Yeah.
That's where the code sharing
story stops because the UI
is going to be different.
You can make it look
as similar as you want
on the web versus native.
But at some point you're
going to have to deal
with things like the way
Android handles tab navigations and
back buttons and that sort
of thing versus the way
iOS does it. So, and
we don't have a Dom
we can manipulate like you
do on the web. So
we have to use XML.
We can't, you know, have
nice  and devs and
Flexbox, I wish we could
use Flexbox. That would be
just paradise, but we're not
there. Although you can now
use key frame animation. This
is one of the really
cool things we introduced in
native script to, we had,
we do have our own
animation module, but we just
introduced the ability to support
key frame animations. And you
can even bring animate dot
CSS, that little library of
really nice little animations for
bouncing and things flying around.
And you can just bring
that right on in and
use that within a native
script app. And that's, that's
really exciting to have that
sort of thing translated to
native on an animation level
and have it perform to
a native level. It's really
nice, Which kind of brings
us full circle because that
means that I'm, I can
go into the app store
right now in an iPhone
because I have an iPhone
and I'm not going to
be able to tell what's
a native script app or
what's not because it's all
just a native iOS app
and it'll, it'll look and
feel there's not going to
be any, you know, any
tell in poker terms, Right.
It's going to give it
away. No sunglasses, right? Yeah.
If you want to take
a look at a native
script example, it's, there's, I
think it's called example native
script. I think that's what
it's called. It's like an
actual app. It's an actual
app and you can download
that onto your phone and
you can feel the performance
of it. And especially with
those charts, that's actually an
example of native script UI.
And it is the nice
snappy bar charts and pie
charts that kind of swirl
around. And it's really fun
to play with. That's it,
it demos very well. So
I'm happy to have that
at hand. Oh, I just
I'm searching right now. And
I see examples, native script.
Yeah. It's full of layouts
and conference has got a
conference agenda, user profile. It's
kind of an, an app
of all trades. It's like,
it's an app. It's a
kitchen sink app that lets
me check that out. Well,
that's very cool. Well, thanks
so much for your time.
Thank you for letting me
talk about native script. It's
a fun thing to talk
about. Yeah. So you can
check out native script and
native script.org and also on
github.com/native script. And it's really
worth pointing out that a
there's a lot of great
samples up there. Particularly there's
a grocery list management app,
which is a real nice
native script built iOS and
Android app. So explore those.
And it looks like you've
got quite a lot of
people working on it and
some open issues. So maybe
an opportunity to also get
involved in open source. Absolutely
a great opportunity, a great
community hop on Slack and
join us. We'd love to
have you Very cool. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.